well howdy there Internet people its Bo
again so tonight we're going to talk
about George Orwell we're going to talk
about George Orwell because one we're
coming up on banned books week and it
seems fitting to when people talk about
Orwell they don't they don't actually
talk about the man they talk about some
of his writings they pull quotes from
those writings and they use those quotes
to justify whatever it is they believe
and that might work with a lot of
authors the problem is that or well used
a whole lot of satire and parody in his
writing so what you think that quote
means may not be in fact one of his
famous quotes we'll get to that
we're going to talk about him and talk
about what he believes by going through
some of his quotes some that actually
reflect how he thought and there's going
to be one that I promise surprise to you
and we are going to save it to the end
but first one in our age there is no
such thing as keeping out of politics
all issues are political issues this
means a couple of different things one
that government is becoming so
totalitarian that it's involved in
everything
and two it's kind of a warning to those
who only care about the pebble in their
shoe only care about those things that
impact them directly by the time that
political issue that you abstained from
getting involved in reaches you while
it's too late to really do anything
about it this is basically that poem
first they came for the Socialists and I
said nothing because I was on a
socialist it's that poem condensed into
one line and that certainly impacted a
lot of how he thought and a lot of what
he wrote all the war propaganda all the
screaming and lies and hatred comes
invariably from those who are not
fighting very true today it's true then
it's very true today as well when the
next military intervention arises the
Talking Heads that convince you that it
is absolutely necessary and if we don't
do it it'll be the end of the world when
it starts they will be safely on set
watching their stocks and raytheon rise
the very concept of objective truth is
fading out of the world lies will pass
into history that's true but it's always
been true this is not a particularly
profound quote from Orwell really this
isn't a this isn't something
groundbreaking on his part but it
explains a lot about why he wrote the
way he did in many ways he wasn't
worried about fact he was worried about
truth and he used fiction to get to that
truth in a time of deceit telling the
truth is a revolutionary act this is
definitely something he believes and
truly reflected him but I think people
short-sell this quote they think it
means Edward Snowden is a good person
and yeah it can be applied that way but
see I think this is really perfect I
think what he's saying really is that
the real battlefield of the future is
that 4-inch space inside your skull and
that with the control systems the
government's have becoming so advanced
like mass media as showcased in 1984
that if they are successful in using
deceit to shape your beliefs in your
ideology they'll never face a revolution
unless somebody tells the truth that to
me is pretty profound journalism is
printing what someone else does not want
printed everything else is just public
relations and that is true journalism is
collecting other people's enemies as a
hobby this explains a lot about how he
wrote and
it was a homage to Catalonia there are
entire sections to that book that could
be dropped completely irrelevant to the
plot really but they were included in
fact they were criticized as being
journalism within it he was in a
position to let people know what was
going on and he did you know hunter
arrest Thompson is seen as the father of
gonzo journalism and that's definitely
true but maybe Orwell's the grandfather
because a lot of what he did was in that
same vein he was telling things that
others did not want told by hiding them
a little bit obscuring the facts hello
and putting it into a storyline now the
next one we're going to go into is
probably one of his best-known quotes
and certainly the most misunderstood if
you want a picture of the future picture
a boot stomping on a human face forever
man that's chilling that is chilling and
he did not didn't see a good future
force the problem is that's not him
that's not how I mean he wrote the words
but they're not his thoughts they're the
bad guys
in 1984 this has been cast as his
prophetic prophetic last warning to the
people of the world
no it wasn't or what wasn't a pessimist
it was realist what this is saying in in
the context of how it was really
presented was that the establishment the
elites our betters they see themselves
as so far above us they're not even
human
and that they will use whatever means
necessary to maintain power this is
about kicking down stomping down in this
case Orwell didn't believe that Orwell
did not believe that and he didn't think
it would work not really because in his
words in his voice in what he was
talking about misusing metaphors
he said in real life it is always the
anvil that breaks the hammer those
taking the hits saying that it's not
those that can dish out the most that
when it's those that can take the most
if there was a sequel to 1984 it would
probably be the proles finding their
power realizing the power they have
because of their numbers after taking so
much abuse and staging a revolution now
this is the one that is going to shock a
lot of people and there's definitely
gonna be the most entertaining 1936-1937
turned the scale and thereafter I knew
where I stood every line of serious work
that I have written since 1936 has been
written directly or indirectly against
totalitarianism and for democratic
socialism put that on a button on a
picture of a OSI and share it
Orwell was a unique person his writing a
lot of it was satire it was parody in
order to understand it you have to
understand what was going on at the time
and you have to understand him the idea
that
he thought the future was hopeless and
that that was what was gonna happen now
definitely not if he did he wouldn't
have spent so much time trying to tell
truth in an age of deceit anyway it's
just a thought y'all have a good night